DRAGON: /In a land of myth
and a time of magic,
the destiny of a great kingdom
rests on the shoulders of a young boy.
His name, Merlin.
(TRUMPETS BLOWING)
Father, we're not going into battle.
You don't have to look so somber.
Never before
have the rulers of the five kingdoms
come together in this way.
Never before have we all worked towards
the same aim, towards peace.
If these talks are successful,
Camelot will enter a new era
of prosperity.
If they fail,
it will almost certainly mean war.
Boy, is it too much to ask
that you might anticipate my needs?
-Sorry, Master. I was...
-Stop whinging.
Sorry, Master.
Alined, you are most welcome
on this momentous occasion.
Momentous? Let us hope so.
Uther may think that we are
gathered here for peace,
but that is far from my mind.
Am I to take it
that Lady Vivian is part of our plan?
She is very lovely.
Don't let her father hear you say that.
Not if you value your head.
Indeed I do,
it is my prettiest feature.
Olaf is the most over-protective buffoon
I've ever met.
It would surely
end the peace talks
if anyone were
to lay a finger on her.
TRICKLER: But nobody in their
right mind would do that.
But Arthur won't be
in his right mind, will he?
(LAUGHING)
What kind of welcome is this?
You have us hanging around
like the last swallows of summer.
You are welcome indeed, Olaf.
(LAUGHING)
May I present my daughter,
the Lady Vivian.
Lady Vivian.
How like your mother you are.
ARTHUR: I hope everything
is to your satisfaction?
It is adequate.
Most of our guests are
extremely happy here.
-I am sure you will be, too.
-I am not most of your guests.
Indeed.
May I present Guinevere.
She'll be looking after you
for the duration of your stay.
You will want for nothing.
She is truly one of Camelot's finest.
(LAUGHS)
Then I fear for Camelot.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
-Good luck with that one.
-Mmm.
| need to
prepare for the feast.
Merlin?
What kind of impression
do you think this gives?
-That we have moths.
-Fetch me another.
And who might you be
trying to impress, Sire?
Let me see, perhaps the five kings
sitting in the banquet hall below.
Oh!
Not the King's daughter then?
The Lady Vivian,
she is very beautiful.
Anyone trying to impress the Lady Vivian
does so at extreme peril.
Olaf would have their
head in a vat of hot oill
before they'd had a chance
to say hello.
Besides, she's not my type.
She may be beautiful,
but she's incredibly rude.
You should have heard
what she said to Gwen.
And anyone insulting Gwen
should do so at extreme peril.
-What?
-Nothing.
| just know how you feel
about her, that's all.
That is if your feelings
haven't changed,
as I presume they haven't.
| do have my own vat
of hot oil, you know?
(LAUGHS)
-You're blushing.
-No, I'm not.
-What's wrong with Gwen?
-Nothing.
| think she's very worthy
of your love.
Indeed. Were it so.
-Which it is.
-Merlin?
-Yes, Arthur.
-Get out.
Yes, Sire.
(DOOR CLOSING)
But it is not enough to just please
the gentlemen of the court.
Now, I have a spectacle
for the ladies.
-It is skill indeed.
-We aim to please.
(GASPS)
But what is this?
Lady Vivian.
It has mistaken you
for a beautiful flower.
(TRICKLER CHANTING)
Sleep well, Prince Arthur,
and when you wake,
may your thoughts
be only of Vivian.
Oh!
(CHANTS)
Sweet dreams.
MERLIN: Good morning, Sire.
Never have you been
more right, Merlin.
It is the sunniest,
the most fragrant,
the most beautiful morning
| have ever seen in my life.
-You're dressed.
-I am the future King of Camelot,
-I do have some skills, you know?
-Indeed, you are very skilled
at getting people
to do things for you.
It is your job.
But today my job is to woo.
-To what?
-To woo.
| wish to make
a proclamation of love.
Really? I thought you wanted
to keep your feelings secret.
Why would I want to do that?
By the end of today,
| will have won my Lady.
Right.
-What will you tell your father?
-What does my father matter?
That's one way of
approaching things.
So, I need your help
in expressing my feelings.
Of course.
-How do I express my feelings?
-Oh! I see.
-Feelings, girls.
-Flowers.
-Excellent. Find some.
-Perhaps you should also send a note.
-Brilliant idea.
Something moving.
Something from the heart.
Something...
You'll think of something.
(KNOCKING ON DOOR)
Gwen? Gwen?
“The barriers
that keep us apart are nothing
"compared to the power of true love.
Arthur."
Your demands are
noted and will be
taken into consideration
in due course.
In the meantime, is there anyone else
who has any other comments
about the Northern territories?
-Did you do it?
- I left them in her room.
| hope that was better
than a public display.
You sure she got them?
-I'm sure she will get them.
-Good.
All we can do now is wait.
But heaven has blessed me.
She's even more beautiful than before.
Don't you agree?
Yeah.
I'm surprised to hear
you talk so openly.
Nonsense.
| want to tell the world.
| want to shout it across
the Kingdom.
(INDISTINCT)
Are you sure
that's a good idea?
| understand your feelings,
but other people may object.
Object? To what?
You're the future King of Camelot,
and she's just a serving girl.
Albeit a very
nice serving girl.
(GROANS)
Lady Vivian is of royal blood,
a future queen.
I'll have your head if I hear
such insolence again.
Lady Vivian?
Oh, no.
-Merlin. Can't you knock?
-Rats.
What?
Big, hairy, sharp teeth.
Yeah, definitely, under here.
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
-Are you feeling all right?
-Me. Never better.
-You?
-I am having a very surprising day.
-Really?
-You know one of those occasions
when you've lost all hope
and then out of the blue
something happens
to restore your faith?
Sort of.
Well, that's what's
happened to me today.
| may have caused a problem.
Although it wasn't entirely my doing.
-What now, Merlin?
-Arthur's in love.
-And how did you cause that?
-That bit isn't my fault.
The other bit is.
| can't tell you about that bit.
-Clear as mud.
-Arthur's completely besotted.
He can't
concentrate on anything.
All he thinks about,
all he talks about is...
-Is the Lady Vivian.
-The Lady Vivian?
How could that have happened
SO suddenly?
| don't know.
Something doesn't feel right.
Only yesterday
he dismissed her as rude.
If Arthur professes
his love for Vivian,
Olaf will be furious.
Surely Arthur knows that?
He said it was his job to woo
his lady by the end of the day.
Then it's your
job to stop him.
-Who is it?
-It is destiny, my love.
Destiny and chicken.
What a beautiful combination, eh?
The beans are a little cold,
but the meat is very good.
-Go away.
-My love, I do not know
-what I have done to offended you.
-Your love? Not now, nor ever.
Come now.
My father will kill you
if he finds you here.
-Your father does not worry me.
-You won't be saying that
when he's running at you with
a knife in his hand.
I've seen it before.
-Really?
-Yes.
-Just five minutes?
-My Lord,
| don't think
your advances are welcome.
VIVIAN: Go away,
and take your chicken with you.
| don't know what gives you
that impression.
Damn it! Every woman in the land
is attracted to this boy.
I'm almost
attracted to him myself.
(LAUGHS)
Not Lady Vivian, my Lord.
We have until
the end of tomorrow
to scupper these talks.
-I need war, do you understand?
-Yes, I do. I do.
Peace will make me poor.
And you know what happens
to poor kings.
They cannot afford castles,
or knights,
-or jesters.
-But, Master...
Enough.
There will be time for sniveling
when the axe is over your head.
Now, there is work to be done.
Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
-Go on, Merlin, say it.
-What?
You do not think
| should pursue my love.
Well, seeing as you asked,
| think a number of things
stand in the way
of a happy union
between you and the Lady Vivian.
Her blood-thirsty father,
for one.
Her complete
lack of interest for another.
Might it be worthwhile
returning to your old love?
| have my reservations
about that, as well.
What are you talking about, Merlin?
| don't have an old love.
What on Earth?
You really need to
start paying attention
to the details.
| knew something wasn't right.
-Arthur's enchanted.
- Ishould've realized he had magic.
No one can make butterflies
appear from thin air.
Trickier.
Why would he want Arthur
to fall in love with Vivian?
An advance by Arthur
would be a sure fire way
to ruin the peace conference.
-Maybe Alined wants war.
-Without creating it himself.
It's the sort of cowardly behavior
you would expect from him.
Cowardly, but clever.
We need to find a way
of turning Arthur back to normal.
Before it's too late.
Lady Vivian... My love...
GAIUS: Breakfast.
There are over 636 love spells
in these books
and over 150 of them
involve a lock of hair.
Is there no way we can
narrow them down a bit?
| have,
but if I choose this one and it's wrong,
Arthur will end up as a toad.
And if this one's wrong,
Vivian will lose all her hair.
Olaf might not
declare war for that,
but she certainly would!
(CHANTS)
(SHRIEKS)
Whoops!
Gwen has been detained.
| thought you might
appreciate breakfast.
Thank you, how kind.
| am so happy this morning,
| could almost forget to eat.
But that looks wonderful.
Really wonderful.
Pray, my Lady,
what has caused such happiness?
| cannot tell, so do not ask.
Intriguing. You know,
another meaning of jester is
-keeper of secrets.
-Really?
-No.
-Trickier, you mustn't tell.
Not a soul.
Especially not my father.
-Go on.
-I am in love.
(GASPS)
How wonderful. With me?
(LAUGHS)
With a man more courageous
than a lion,
stronger than an ox,
and so perfectly formed
it is as if he had been
sculpted by the gods themselves.
But it must be me?
Just to speak his name
brings me pleasure indeed.
-Then speak it you should.
-Arthur.
There, I have said it.
My heart belongs to Arthur.
Excellent.
-In fact, I am going to tell him now.
-Oh! A brilliant idea.
-Where is Gwen? I must dress.
-But you look so beautiful, my Lady.
-How could he refuse you like this?
-In my night gown?
Why not?
Hmm.
What is it, Arthur?
You look like
you have something on your mind.
You read me like a book.
| have made a fool of myself,
that's all. That's everything.
I'm sure that is not true.
You have a good heart,
Guinevere, but I'm afraid it is.
| have made a gesture.
And it was not well received.
-You're sure?
-Pretty sure.
Then you are wrong.
You are very close
to the lady in question.
Your token was much appreciated,
but the situation is delicate.
And it is not always easy to express
what is really in one's heart.
You think there's hope?
There is always hope.
If only I had
some way of knowing.
Indeed, my Lord.
| wish to see Arthur.
Your master. My Lord.
-Your what?
-My heart's delight.
-Oh, no.
-Where is he?
He's not here.
Which is a very good thing, I believe.
-Then I shall wait.
- I don't think that's a good idea.
-You're not even dressed.
-My love does not care what I wear,
-only that I am near. Now fetch him.
-I cannot.
-You will.
-I shan't.
-As he commands you, I command you.
-I am asking you to leave.
| want my love,
| need my love. I want to see him now.
(EXCLAIMS EXCITEDLY)
And so moving on
to our final point for discussion,
the boundaries of the
Eastern territories.
This is a point
that I am willing to concede.
-That is very generous.
-Excuse me, Sire?
-One moment.
-(WHISPERING)
What?
-Where is she?
-What's that?
Oh, no. Oh, no.
Okay, you need to go.
You cannot keep us apart.
It is written in the stars.
Vivian and Arthur,
a love for all time.
A love stronger
than time, a love...
(CHANTING)
Why are you hanging around
like a bad smell?
It's me who needs to bathe.
I'm not going to win my love
-stinking like an old kipper.
-No, my Lord.
Where is she?
| know she's in here, Arthur.
Hand her over,
or feel my wrath.
-What's he talking about?
-She wasn't even dressed.
If I have
dishonored you in some way
then by all means
provide me with proof and
-I'll face the consequences.
-Trickier here has told me
that the Lady Vivian
is in your chambers.
If only that were true.
If only that were true,
you would not look so foolish.
Search the room.
You'd better hope
| don't find her.
(CHANTING)
Mmm.
(HUMMING)
That hasn't opened in years.
Buffoon!
You've made an idiot out of me.
| am so terribly sorry, Arthur,
to have disturbed you.
| do hope that
you will forgive me.
Check on the Lady Vivian,
and remain outside her room.
If only the Lady Vivian
were in my room.
How delightful that would be,
eh, Merlin?
Merlin?
(EXHALES)
It's that meddlesome Merlin.
He's on to us, my Lord.
There was nothing I could do.
You do understand, Master?
So you forgive your boy?
You have a matter of hours
before the peace treaty is signed.
That is time enough, Master.
Time enough.
It's less time
than you've had already,
and you haven't
managed it so far.
But the enchantment is strong,
my Lord.
Sooner or later the two
will be drawn together.
For the sake of
your prettiest feature,
you had better believe
that to be the case.
(GRUNTING)
(ALL LAUGHING)
This is indeed a momentous day
for the five kingdoms.
This peace treaty
has been long in the making.
| know you must all be keen
to return to your families,
so we will make preparations for the
signing ceremony immediately.
-I am pleased, friends. Very pleased.
-As are we all.
(LAUGHS)
-That's it. I've got it!
-Are you sure?
You're not going to turn Arthur
into a hunchback camel,
-or a horny-eyed toad?
-I'll save that for another day.
"A second chance.
"Sunset.
| will await your presence."
(INAUDIBLE)
(BREATHES DEEPLY)
At last.
(SNORING)
Arthur? Arthur?
(SOFTLY) We can't find Arthur.
-Is there a problem, Uther?
-No, not at all.
Arthur is just
running a little late, that's all.
Ah!
As is the Lady Vivian.
-My love.
-Always. Forever.
(CHANTING)
(REPEATING CHANT)
-I knew it!
-I don't believe it.
Father, we've got something
to tell you.
-Arthur!
-Father?
You once said that if you
ever truly offended my honor,
then you would
happily pay the price.
-What say you now, Prince Arthur?
-How have I offended your honor?
-Surely not with my love alone.
-Love?
You don't know the first thing
about love.
You are taking advantage
of an innocent girl.
-Father...
-Arthur!
| assure you
my feelings for your daughter
are as real as they are strong.
Unhand her,
or suffer the consequences.
Is this really worth
risking your life for?
-Arthur?
-Indeed it is.
| would rather die,
than deny my feelings.
| love your daughter
with all my heart.
(BELL TOLLING)
It's no good.
I've spoken to Olaf.
He will not rescind the challenge.
He says his honor has been tainted.
-He demands recompense.
-You didn't have to do that, Father.
The fight is to the death.
What did you think you were doing?
You cannot help
who you fall in love with.
You do you realize
that your actions
threaten the peace talks,
and that it may yet
bring war to Camelot?
| am happy to fight
for what I believe in.
-What's happened to him?
-Lady Vivian. Nothing more.
And yet,
who could wish for more?
| don't understand it.
Trickler's magic's strong,
but surely it can't be
stronger than mine?
These love potions
are strange things.
-You need to go to Uther.
-No!
-It's a fight to the death!
-If Uther realizes
that one of the kings is using magic,
there will certainly be a war.
The only way out
of this situation
is to un-enchant Arthur.
And un-enchant him fast!
-Anything interesting?
-Haven't you heard?
Arthur was discovered
in Lady Vivian's chambers.
-What?
-King Olaf has demanded recompense.
They are to fight to the death.
All for the love of a woman.
And Lady Vivian, at that.
You look more shocked than I did.
-It is very surprising.
- I don't know why
-he couldn't control his feelings.
-Indeed.
| will miss the tourney
if you don't mind.
-There is so much to organize here.
-But of course.
-Guinevere, you will wish me luck?
-Will I?
-Haven't you heard?
-Oh yes, I've heard.
Though sadly not
from your lips.
| wish you could've been
more honest with me, Arthur.
-What is she talking about?
-No idea.
You are pleased, my Lord?
Do I get to keep my fingers?
Trickier, I shall cast
your fingers in gold.
(LAUGHS)
| could not have
wished for more.
| told you I would not fail you,
my Lord.
If Olaf kills Arthur,
then Uther will start a war.
If Arthur kills Olaf,
then his men will start a war.
(LAUGHING)
We cannot lose! No!
King Olaf has
demanded recompense
and by the ancient laws of Camelot,
the matter will be settled
by a tourney in three stages.
The weapons chosen are
quarter staff, mace and sword.
The fight will be by
the Knights rules and to the death.
Are we all clear?
(GRUNTING)
(CROWD APPLAUDING)
(CROWD GASP)
(GROANS)
(CROWD EXCLAIMING)
(GONG CLANGING)
One of your ribs
is broken, Sire.
Nothing can hurt me today.
I'm invincible.
Love really can conquer all,
Gaius, it's true.
(SOFTLY) This can't go on.
The fight's not fair.
Arthur's head
is in the clouds.
-I don't know what to do.
-Then find someone who does.
(LAUGHING)
This is magic indeed.
Everything I have
tried has failed.
From what you tell me,
the spell has captured his heart.
And his heart is
controlling his brain.
There is no magic
that can break this enchantment.
-There must be.
-It has too great a hold.
-I cannot let Arthur die!
-Patience, young warlock.
The solution lies in a force
greater than you or I can understand.
A force that has
puzzled many minds.
-Please, I have very little time.
-A force...
-Just tell me!
-(LAUGHING)
Why, it is the greatest force of all.
-Love.
-Love?
You must find the person
Arthur truly loves.
-And then what?
-One kiss from her,
will break the enchantment
and he will desire Vivian no more.
(EXHALES)
GAIUS: Are you sure
you can carry on, Sire?
As long as I have Vivian to gaze at,
| can conquer the world.
Besides, the mace is my forte.
You'll see.
(CROWD EXCLAIMING)
-Rats again, Merlin?
-What? No, no. I need your help.
-Arthur needs your help.
- I do not think that Arthur needs me.
Gwen, don't worry, I know.
-You know what?
-Everything.
Anyone who spends
five minutes you
can see how you
feel about each other.
Look, I do not have
a lot of time to explain.
You're gonna
have to trust me.
-Arthur does love you.
-No, he doesn't.
If you don't trust me,
trust your feelings.
I'm never trusting
my feelings again.
-He's enchanted.
-Yes, with Lady Vivian,
-I can see that.
-I mean literally enchanted
with magic, potions, love juice.
None of his feelings are genuine.
How can you be sure?
When I saw him,
his feelings seemed real enough.
Gwen, none of his feelings
for Vivian are real.
But if you do not break the spell,
his death will be.
Search your heart,
you know who he loves.
(GROANS)
(CROWD EXCLAIM)
(GONG CLANGING)
(GRUNTS IN FRUSTRATION)
Ahl Have you finally come
to wish me good luck?
"Cause I really don't think
| need it anymore.
No, Arthur, I have not
come to wish you luck.
-Honestly, that is rather rude.
-Then let me make amends.
(GRUNTING IN PAIN)
-What am I doing?
-You're in a fight.
To the death. You're losing.
-But...
-There is no time to explain.
Just live for me, Arthur.
That's all I ask right now.
(CROWD CHEERING)
Merlin, if anything should happen to me,
look after Gwen.
The world may think
she is just a servant, dispensable.
But she's not
dispensable to me.
(GROANING)
This is no way
to achieve peace.
| thought I better deliver it
myself this time.
I'm sorry.
For what I put you through.
No.
You have nothing to apologize for.
| too have caused
my fair share of hurt.
You must believe
that my feelings for
Vivian were not real.
| have never loved another.
But one day you will.
One day you will find
your real princess.
One day you will
be King of Camelot.
And I cannot be your queen.
-You don't know that.
-I am as sure of that as you are.
-Things may change.
-Well, until they do...
My Lord.
Your boy has a very wise head
on his shoulders.
No doubt he gets that from you.
| hope these events
will not harm our peace treaty.
| believe that Vivian
was as much to blame as Arthuir.
I'll take her
away from temptation.
She is far too young
to encounter such things.
Yes, I go in peace.
| am very
pleased to hear that.
This is more than you deserve, boy.
You will run all the way home.
-That's not possible, Master.
-Make it possible.
Why so cross, Alined?
Anyone would think
you didn't want peace?
But of course I do.
Peace, love it.
You may return any time
to view the treaty.
You are very kind.
We may return, too?
-You are always welcome.
-My heart will remain,
and I hope to join it soon.
Not too soon.
No, it might conflict
with your one true love.
-My what?
-You heard me. I have proof.
-Proof?
-You kissed her in the tent.
-Merlin?
-Yes.
-What happened in the tent...
-Mmm-hmm?
-Speak of it again and I'll kill you.
-Okay.
DRAGON: Merlin.
The ancient prophecies
speak of an alliance
of Mordred and Morgana
united in evil.
This crystal cannot fall
into enemy hands.
Is it some kind of weapon?
Mordred will
master the crystal
and when he does,
we will strike Uther down.
DRAGON: This union must be stopped,
whatever the cost.